In this lecture, you'll learn about wireless infrastructure mode and access points, and it really
helps to understand how the lines work if you understand the terminology from the eight to 11 standard.
So I'll be going through the standard terms in this lecture.
Wireless access points provide connectivity between wireless stations and between the wireless and wired
networks.
And when your wireless devices are communicating through a wireless access point, they're operating
in infrastructure mode.
Wireless is half duplex, meaning only one device can communicate at a time.
So in that regard, your wireless access points operate similarly to hobs.
Here's a picture of a typical wireless access point from Cisco, your wireless APIs can have either
internal or external antennas.
You can see the one year internal and it can also be designed for indoor or outdoor use.
OK, first piece of terminology is best, the basic services.
So an access point, centralizes oxygen and control over a group of wireless devices.
Those devices under wireless settings make up a B, as you remember from the last lecture when we covered
ad hoc mode, it was called an IBS, an independent basic service set because in not peer-to-peer network,
the devices were operating independently with an access point.
Well, now we do have an access point.
So it's not independent anymore.
It's just the VSS Basic Service.
Next terminology is, yes, the distribution system through your wireless app provides connectivity
to the Wired network for the wireless clients, and it's a distribution system that connects the wireless
access points to the Wired network.
So in the example here, you can see our app is connected to the switch here.
That's where it's getting connectivity to the Wired network.
So the switch is known as a distribution system.
Best idea as a basic service set identifier devices within the basic services are identified by verbs
aside, and that is based on their Mac address.
You see, for example, here are wireless app has got Mac address adult B, so that is used as its best
ID to identify it in the wireless network BFC as a basic service area.
And the BSA is a wireless coverage area of an access point.
This is also known as a wireless cell.
You see the example here?
We've got our app in the middle.
That is its basic service area, its area of coverage.
That would be Ashin.
Southside is a service identifier, the Southside is a unique identifier that names a wireless network,
though Bulani, for example, corporate for sure, you've seen this before.
If you've walked into any coffee shop and asked to get onto the wireless network, they will give you
the SS I.D. and password to connect to.
A single access point can't support multiple SS IDs, for example, corporate and guest on different
sides can have different security settings and be mapped to different viewpoints.
So, for example, in our corporate office, we have created a corporate side and a guest aside for
users to be able to connect to the corporate W on the need to supply a valid username and password.
When they do that, Vermont to the corporate villain and IP subnet and they get connectivity to all
of the internal corporate resources like servers.
If a guest walks into the company and they want to get wireless access, they can get back to the connect
to the guest side.
To do that, they only need to provide a password rather than be a valid user inside the company.
But when they connect to the guest, the Vermont to the guest vielen an IP subnet which does not have
access to any internal resources.
We just give them Internet access.
Beacons, wireless access points, broadcast information about their W lines, including the SSD and
authentication requirements with beacon frames, this can be disabled, which can give you a little
bit of extra security because people cannot then easily see the SS ID.
However, it is trivially easy to sniff this information from other traffic in the wireless area and
find information.
SS is an extended service set, the same SS I.D. can be supported across multiple access points to give
a larger coverage area.
So you can see an odd example here.
We've got our corporate SS ID.
We've got a wireless app on the left here and it's got its coverage area.
It's BSEE.
And then we've got another wireless app which has got its coverage area.
It's IBSA and we can keep adding additional wireless apps in our building until we cover the entire
area.
When you do that, you want wireless apps which are enabling each other to be using different channels
so they don't interfere with each other.
I'll cover and I want more detail in a later lecture in the section.
And finally, we have got roaming wireless client stations can roam across wireless apps supporting
the same lines.
So in our example here, we've got our laptop here, which is currently connected to the first app.
If you're on that laptop and you're wondering about the building with your laptop, then your laptop
can room to other apps like that.
OK, but was everything that I needed to cover here?
In the next hour, we'll talk about wireless line controllers, which give us more scalability again.